.TH FLEXD.CONF 5 "28 April 2013" Linux "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
flexd.conf \- flexd configuration file.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B flexd.conf
file is read by flexd at program startup and is used to modify the
behaviour of the robot.
.LP
The lines within
.B flexd.conf
must either be a comment line, which starts with a # in the first column, or
one of the commands listed below. Commands and arguments are delimited
by white space. Arguments can contain white space if they are enclosed
in double quotes. Also C-style escapes (\\n, \\x0A, \\012 etc.) are parsed
within double quotes.
.sp
Available configuration commands are:
.TP 14
.B MyCall	<xx#xx>
Sets up the callsign AND ssid you wish to use to connect to your flexnet
neighbor for destinations import. Do NOT use an ssid of your ax25 interface
which you'll be polling from as you may create a loop between your system
and the flexnet neighbor.
An example: MyCall	kb1uuu-13
.TP 14
.B PollInterval	<time/secs>
This string tells the robot how many times in SECONDS to poll your flexnet
neighbor and import their destination table. In my production environment
300 (or 5 minutes) seemed to be fine. I would NOT go below 180 (3 minutes)
as you may create more traffic than needed.
.TP 14
.B FlexGate	<xx#xx-##>
This is the callsign of your flexnet neighbor. The robot will read this 
callsign-ssid and attempt a connect to it every ## minutes assigned in
PollInterval <time/mins>. Be sure you do NOT configure it to connect to
a service linked within the flexnet neighbor such as a BBS! You will NOT
receive any destinations to your system that way and the BBS will think
you're attempting a feed.
.TP 14



.SH FILES
.LP
/usr/local/etc/ax25/flexd.conf
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR uronode (8),
.BR uronode.perms (5),
.BR axports (5),
.BR ax25 (4).
