.TH URONODE.CONF 5 "28 April 1998" Linux "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
uronode.conf \- URONode configuration file.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B uronode.conf
file is read by URONode at program startup and is used to modify the
behaviour of the node. The URONode node.conf is no compatible with
the LinuxNode file, as it add new entries: FlexId Prompt and PassPromt.
.LP
The lines within
.B uronode.conf
must either be a comment line, which starts with a # in the first column, or
one of the commands listed below. Commands and arguments are delimited
by white space. Arguments can contain white space if they are enclosed
in double quotes. Also C-style escapes (\\n, \\x0A, \\012 etc.) are parsed
within double quotes. Tabs may also be used for delimiting columns.
.sp
Available configuration commands are:
.TP 14
.B Alias <NAme> \(lq<command> [<args...>]\(rq
Sets up a command alias. The number of uppercase characters at the
beginning of <NAme> specifies how much the user may abbreviate the
command. The uppercase part should be long enough to separate the command
from other commands starting with the same letters. If there are no
uppercase letters in the beginning, the whole name is converted to upper
case and user can not abbreviate the command.
The command and arguments are subject to
.B parameter expansion
(see below).
.TP 14
.B ConnTimeout <timeout>
When user is connected to another system via this system and the
connection is idle (no data flowing in either direction) for <timeout>
seconds the connection is dropped and user disconnected from node.
Default is 3600 seconds
(1 hour).
.TP 14
.B Email	<your@node.ampr.org>
This is your amprnet or commercial email address that's displayed
to users on interfaces you require having a password on to access
your node, highly suggested on inet interfaces. You may leave
off the <>'s. If you do not have an Email line in node.conf
then your email address to users will display as (null) and
will make you look sloppy :-)
.TP 14
.B EscapeChar <escape>
Specifies the escape character. <escape> should be the decimal 
representation of the ASCII code of the wanted escape character.
Setting escape character to \-1 disables the feature altogether.
The default is 20 (ctrl-t).
.sp
Note that the escape mechanism breaks 8-bit transparency of URONode
and you should either disable it or set the no-escape flag in node.perms
for the forwarding stations if (compressed) forward is run trough
URONode.
.TP 14
.B ExtCmd <NAme> <flags> <uid> <exec> <args...>
.RS
.TP 10
.B NAme
This is the name under which the command appears at nodes command list.
The number of uppercase characters at the beginning of <NAme> specifies
how much the user may abbreviate the command.
The uppercase part should be long enough to separate the command
from other commands starting with the same letters. If there are no
uppercase letters in the beginning, the whole name is converted to upper
case and user can not abbreviate the command.
.TP 10
.B flags
This is a sum of flags that control the way the external
command is executed. Currently two flags are implemented:
.RS
.TP 5
.B 1
Run command through pipe. Without this flag node just fork()s and exec()s
the specified command and then waits for it to terminate. The command must
it self be aware about the underlying protocol. It must handle packetising
and any end of line conversions. With this flag however node sets up a pipe
between it self and the command and handles packetising and end of line
conversions for it.
.TP 5
.B 2
Reconnected to flag. If this flag is set, the user gets a reconnected to
prompt after the external command is finished.
.RE
.TP 10
.B uid
This is the userid that the following command should run under when
executing.
.TP 10
.B exec
This is the executable that should be executed.
.TP 10
.B args...
These are the optional arguments that are passed to the executable.
The arguments are subject to
.SM
.B "parameter expansion"
(see below).
.RE
.TP 14
.B HiddenPorts <portname> ...
Marks <portname> as hidden. Hidden ports are not shown to users in
Links, Mheard, Ports and Routes commands and can not be used to make
AX.25 downlink connections unless user is specially permitted to do
so (see node.perms(5)). Up to 32 hidden ports can be specified with
this command.
.TP 14
.B HostName <hostname>
This is the visible hostname of the node. It will be shown at telnet
login and in the node welcome message.
.TP 14
.B IdleTimeout <timeout>
After <timeout> seconds of inactivity while waiting for a command user
is disconnected from node. Default is 900 seconds (15 mins).
.TP 14
.B LocalNet <network>
Defines a "local" network. Users telneting from hosts in this network
are treated separately (see node.perms(5)). <network> is a KA9Q NOS
style network address consisting of a dotted quad ip address of the
network and a number of significant bits separated by a slash. Note
that 127.0.0.0/8 (loopback net) is also considered "local" by default.
.TP 14
.B LogLevel <loglevel>
Specifies what node should log. The available levels are:
.RS
.TP 5
.B 0
Don't log anything.
.TP 5
.B 1
Log only critical errors.
.TP 5
.B 2
Log errors and logins/logouts.
.TP 5
.B 3
Log errors, logins/logouts and all gateway commands.
.LP
Default is to log only critical errors.
.RE
.TP 14
.B NodeId <nodeid>
This is the node id that is shown in every message from node. Default
is "URONode".
.TP 14
.B FlexID <flexid>
This is typically your ax25 callsign-ssid that links to flexnet and/or
to your user interface set by the sysop in ax25d.conf.
.TP 14
.B RoseID <rosecall@dnic,######>
This is your node's rosecall-ssid and your full dnic number typically
consisting of your country code, area code, and phone extension. An
example is: 3100,860906. The full string would be for this part of
the conf file using my config: RoseID n1uro-8@3100860906 or if you do not
use rose enter: RoseID none
.TP 14
.B NrPort <portname>
This is the name of the netrom port that is used when making outgoing
netrom connects. Normally it should match the portname that is used
in ax25d.conf to listen for incoming netrom calls. Default is the first
netrom port.
.TP 14
.B ReConnect on|off
ReConnect flag. If this is on, users gatewaying to another host
get reconnected to this node after the remote host closes connection.
If it's off connection to the user will also be closed. User can
override the default behaviour with a single `s' or `d' at the end
of the gatewaying command (connect or telnet). Default is off.
.TP 14
.B Prompt <NodePrompt>
This is the prompt string of the node. It's delimited by double quotes.
You can use also a "\\n" character for a multi-lines prompt.
.TP 14
.B PassPrompt <PasswordPrompt>
This is the prompt string for sysop password request.  It's delimited by 
double quotes. You can use also a "\\n" character for a multi-lines prompt.
.SH PARAMETER EXPANSION
.LP
The arguments passed to the real command by the Alias and ExtCmd
commands are subject to parameter expansion. If a word starts with a %,
it is expanded. The following formats are expanded:
.TP 14
.B %parameter
This is substituted with the value of
.B parameter
.
.TP 14
.B %{parameter}
The same as above.
.TP 14
.B %{parameter:default}
If
.B parameter
is defined this is susbtituted with the value of it. If not, the default
value is substituted. This currently applies only to positional parameters
0...9.
.LP
The following parameters are defined:
.LP
.TP 8
.B 0...9
The positional parameters.
.TP 8
.B U
The username (callsign) of the remote station in upper case without the SSID.
.TP 8
.B u
The username (callsign) of the remote station in lower case without the SSID.
.TP 8
.B S
The username (callsign) of the remote station in upper case with the SSID.
.TP 8
.B s
The username (callsign) of the remote station in lower case with the SSID.
.TP 8
.B P
The nodename (callsign) of the remote station (NET/ROM), the portname the
user is coming in via (AX.25) or the ip address of the remote host (TCP).
In upper case without the SSID.
.TP 8
.B p
The nodename (callsign) of the remote station (NET/ROM), the portname the
user is coming in via (AX.25) or the ip address of the remote host (TCP).
In lower case without the SSID.
.TP 8
.B R
The nodename (callsign) of the remote station (NET/ROM), the portname the
user is coming in via (AX.25) or the ip address of the remote host (TCP).
In upper case with the SSID.
.TP 8
.B r
The nodename (callsign) of the remote station (NET/ROM), the portname the
user is coming in via (AX.25) or the ip address of the remote host (TCP).
In lower case with the SSID.
.TP 8
.B t
The type of the user connection (ax25, netrom, rose, inet, host) in lower case.
.TP 8
.B T
The type of the user connection (ax25, netrom, rose, inet, host) in upper case.
.LP
Anything else after a % is substituted with a %.
.SH FILES
.LP
/usr/local/etc/ax25/uronode.conf
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR uronode (8),
.BR uronode.perms (5),
.BR axports (5),
.BR ax25 (4).
