.TH URONODE.PERMS 5 "28 April 1998" Linux "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
uronode.perms \- URONode permissions file.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B URONode.perms
file is read at program startup with the knowledge of users username
(call), connection type (AX.25, NET/ROM, ROSE, TCP/IP), peers IP address
(for TCP/IP) and port name (for AX.25). The first entry matching this
information is taken and user is asked for password and given permissions
according to it.
.LP
The lines within
.B uronode.perms
must either be a comment line, which starts with a # in the first column, or
a permission entry in the following format, each field being delimited by
white space:
.sp
.RS
username type portname password permissions
.RE
.sp
The field descriptions are:
.sp
.TP 14
.B username
This is matched against users username (call) without SSID. An asterisk
(*) matches any username.
.TP 14
.B type
This is matched against the type of the connection to user.
Possible values for this field are:
.RS 14
.TP
.B *
matches any type of connection.
.TP
.B ax25
matches users coming in with AX.25 and FlexNet.
.TP
.B netrom
matches users coming in with NET/ROM.
.TP
.B rose
matches users coming in with ROSE.
.TP
.B local
matches TCP/IP connections where users host is in "local" network
as defined in uronode.conf(5).
.TP
.B ampr
matches TCP/IP connections where users host is in amprnet (44.0.0.0/8).
.TP
.B inet
matches TCP/IP connections where users host is neither in "local"
network nor in amprnet.
.TP
.B host
matches users starting URONode from
shell.
.RE
.TP 14
.B portname
If user is coming in with AX.25 this field is matched against the
local port name the user is coming in via. An asterisk (*) matches
any port name.
.TP 14
.B password
If the previous three fields match and this field is not a single
asterisk (*) the user is asked for a password. The password is
then matched against this field.
.TP 14
.B permissions
This field represents a a bitmask of operations the user is permitted
to do. It is a sum of the values listed here:
.RS 14
.TP
.B 1
permits logging in even if no other permissions are given.
.TP
.B 2
permits outgoing AX.25 and Flexnet connects.
.TP
.B 4
permits outgoing NET/ROM connects.
.TP
.B 8
permits telneting to hosts in the "local" network as defined in
uronode.conf(5).
.TP
.B 16
permits telneting to hosts in amprnet.
.TP
.B 32
permits telneting to hosts neither in the "local" network nor in amprnet.
.TP
.B 64
ANSI Color flag. Enable per interface to allow the user to have ANSI color
graphics on their terminal. A "*" for the interface will flag color ON for
all interfaces for that callsign. Suggested to leave OFF unless requested
by the end user... but looks kewl in a shell terminal.
.TP
.B 128
permits outgoing ROSE connects.
.TP
.B 256
The no-escape flag. Disables the escape mechanism for this user.
.TP
.RE
.SH FILES
.LP
/usr/local/etc/ax25/uronode.perms
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR uronode (8),
.BR uronode.conf (5),
.BR axports (5),
.BR ax25 (4).
