.TH URONODE 8 "28 April 1998" Linux "Linux System Managers Manual"
.SH NAME
URONode \- Node front end for AX.25, NET/ROM, Rose and TCP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B node
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B URONode
is a simple node front end, modelled after the node shells of LinuxNode,
AWZNode, and Flexnode.
.SH COMMANDS
The following commands are supported for users of
.B URONode:
.TP 13
.BI ?
Give short list of available commands.
.TP 13
.BI Announce
Reads the file uronode.announce. This is like a local announcement wall
where you can give your locals connecting into your node a chance to see
the local activities going on like a cork board with posted announcements.
.TP 13
.BI Bye
Disconnect user from the node.
.TP 13
.BI "Connect <call | alias> [s|d]                  For NETROM"
.TP 13
.BI "Connect <port> <call> [via <call1> ...] [d|s] For AX.25"
.TP 13
.BI "Connect <call> <address> [<digi>] [d|s]       For ROSE"
.TP 13
.BI "Connect <destination> [s|d]                   For FlexNet"
.sp 1
Initiates an AX25, NET/ROM, ROSE or Flexnet connection to a remote host. 
If more than two parameters are entered and the second parameter is ten 
charachers in length then it is interpreted as a ROSE connection, 
otherwise the first parameter is interpreted as a port name and AX25 is 
used to make the connection via that port. If only one parameter is given 
the connection is made searching for the callsign in NET/ROM nodes, 
in AX25 Fixed links, in FlexNet destinations and last in Mheard database 
in this order.	
.sp
For a ROSE connection the <address> part must be exactly six or ten digits.
If only six digits are supplied, the DNIC (first four digits) default to the
local DNIC. The local DNIC is assumed to be that of the first configured
Rose port in /etc/ax25/rsports.
.sp
The user may optionally supply as the last argument a single character
which modifies the default behaviour on disconnection of the connection.
If a single `s' is entered as the last argument, then when the remote host
disconnects you will be returned to this node. If a single `d' is entered as
the last argument, you will be disconnected from this node too. The Default
behaviour (neither `s' nor `d' entered) is configured in the node configuration
file and depends on the sysop preference.
.TP 13
.BI "CAllbook <call>[@<server>]"
Retrieve data about a callsign from an internet-accessible
callbook server. The server name can usually be omitted, since
the default server configured by the operator is usually
valid. The default setting can be overridden by specifying
a host name.
.TP 13
.BI "Escape [<escape string>]"
Override the sysop configured default escape character setting. If the Escape
command is given without an argument then the current escape character setting
is returned to the user. The escape string may be specified using any of the
well known codings:
.IP
.BI "<char>"
to enter the escape character in its binary form.
.IP
.BI "^C"
to enter the escape character as a control character value.
.IP
.BI "NNN"
to set the escape character to a Decimal value.
.IP
.BI "0xNN"
to set the escape character to a HexaDecimal value.
.IP
.BI "0NNN"
to set the escape character to an Octal value.
.IP
.BI "off"
to disable the escape character.
.TP 13
.BI "Finger [<username>][@<hostname>]"
Retrieve information about users of a system. If the user
name is omitted, shows the users currently logged on the
host. If the hostname is omitted, defaults to the local host.
.TP 13
.BI "Help [<command>]"
Give help for the specified command or this text if no
command is specified. Commands can not be abbreviated.
Use the "?" command to retrieve a list of available commands.
.TP 13
.BI "HOst <hostname> | <ip address>"
Give the Domain Name Service host name information about <hostname> or
<ip address>.
.TP 13
.BI Info
Display the version information and the contents of the
/usr/local/etc/ax25/uronode.info file, which should describe any aspects
of your system that you would like to brag about.
.TP 13
.BI INTerfaces
Display the node's interface schema, most folks often call these "ports".
.TP 13
.BI Jheard <interface>
Displays the last 20 stations heard to this node. You may use an interface
name to get the last 20 stations heard to that particular interface.
.TP 13
.BI JLong <interface>
Displays the full list of the heards database up to the last 100 callsigns.
Add the name of an interface for the full heards listing for that specific
interface.
.TP 13
.BI "Links [d | n | v | <call>]"
Shows the AX25 link table of the local node. The destinations 
on this list can be reached using the Connect command without 
knowing the actual network path used (assuming the network is OK).

The optional parameter d show the AX25 nodes directly linked.
The optional parameter n show the AX25 nodes linked connecting 
another node and passing a string like "C XX0XX".
The optional parameter v show the AX25 links via digipeaters.

You can also specify a destination callsign to get the verbose 
information for a single destination.
.TP 13
.BI "Nodes [* | <node>]"
Show the NET/ROM node table of the local host. The nodes on this
list can be reached using the Connect command without knowing the
actual network path used (assuming the network is OK).
.sp
The optional argument '*' toggles verbose mode, showing the
Obsolescence counter, relative path quality and the port and
neighbour node used to reach each node. You can also specify
a node callsign to get the verbose information for a single node.
In that case a "which" field that tells what route the kernel
will use to reach the node is also shown.
.TP 13
.BI "Ping <host> [<size>]"
Check if a host can be reached trough the network by sending
an ICMP Echo Request packet to the host and waiting for it to
reply. If a reply is received the round-trip-time (RTT)
between the local and remote hosts is shown.
.sp
If an optional length is specified the data portion of the
packet is filled with length number of bytes up to 128.
.TP 13
.BI Routes
Shows the NET/ROM route table of the local host (eg. the nodes
which the local node directly talks with). These nodes are used
to reach the other nodes on the node table. Fields shown are:
.IP
.BI "Link"
Is there an AX25 connection active to this node.
.IP
.BI "Port"
Which port is this route on.
.IP
.BI "Callsign"
The callsign of the neighbour node.
.IP
.BI "Quality"
A relative quality for the path (0-255).
.IP
.BI "Destinations"
Number of other nodes reached via this route.
.IP
.BI "Lock"
Is the quality of this route locked by the operator.
.IP
.BI "QSO"
Number of NET/ROM session enties.
.TP 13
.BI "Telnet <host> [<port>] [<string>] [d|s]"
Initiate a telnet session to a remote host using TCP/IP.
By default, the telnet command connects to the TCP port 23
(allocated for telnet). You can specify another TCP port or
a TCP port name.
.sp
If an optional third argument <string> is given, that string, followed
by a CRLF is sent to the remote host right after the connection is
established. This is mainly useful for command aliases.
.sp
If a single `s' is entered as the last parameter, then when
the remote host disconnects you will be returned to this node.
If a single `d' is entered as the last parameter, you will
be disconnected from this node too. Default behaviour (neither
`s' nor `d' entered) depends on sysop configuration.
.TP 13
.BI "MSG <user> <message>"
Send a message to another user of the node. The user
in question must be in idle state (ie. not connected/connecting
anywhere or running a program).
.sp
If the user has an SSID other than zero, the SSID must be
specified. If multiple users are logged in with the same
callsign/SSID pair, those who are in idle state, get the message.
.TP 13
.BI Users
Show a list of users currently connected to the local node,
where the users are coming from, and what are they doing at the
moment.
.SH FILES
.LP
.TP 5 
.B /usr/local/etc/ax25/uronode.conf
URONode configuration file.
.br
.TP 5
.B /usr/local/etc/ax25/uronode.perms
URONode permissions file.
.br
.TP 5
.B /usr/local/etc/ax25/uronode.users
URONode users settings file.
.br
.TP 5
.B /usr/local/etc/ax25/uronode.motd
URONode message of the day file.
.br
.TP 5 
.B /usr/local/etc/ax25/uronode.info
The response to the 'info' command.  
This file should be edited to reflect the local configuration.
.br
.TP 5 
.B /usr/local/var/ax25/node/loggedin
Database of current users.
.br
.TP 5
.B /usr/local/var/ax25/mheard/mheard.dat
Information about AX.25 stations heard.
.br
.TP 5 
.B /usr/local/var/ax25/node/help/*.hlp
The online help files.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR uronode.conf (5),
.BR uronode.perms (5),
.BR axports (5),
.BR ax25d (8),
.BR mheardd (8).
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Rogers N1URO <n1uro@n1uro.com>
.SH THANKS TO
Stefano Noferi IZ5AWZ <iz5awz@radio-gw.cnuce.cnr.it>
.br
Tomi Manninen OH2BNS <tpmannin@cc.hut.fi>
.br 
Alan Cox GW4PTS <gw4pts@gw4pts.ampr.org>
.br 
Roy PE1RJA <roy@esrac.ele.tue.nl>
